*LINKS*
mixcloud
soundcloud
instagram
telegram

*BODY*
baladi.014 takes us to Guatemala City through the eyes of artist David Bianchi, who describes his city as follows: 
““When I think of Guatemala City, I think of:

_ Drafts; no matter where I am, there’s always a breeze blowing, swaying, amplifying and carrying the bustle of the street, its echo heard from afar.

_ I think of the valley where it lies, and how easy it is 
for me to find my bearings, not just amongst the concrete and the cables, but I know exactly where I am in the world.

_ I think of the sunset, because every sunset is like a play unfolding before my eyes; the colours of the sky change so gently and subtly, the clouds burst into flames.

_ I think of the steady rhythm of day and night, sunrises heralded by a chorus of birds and sunsets where they add the final notes to the day.

_ I also think of a place changing at breakneck speed, yet the sounds I encounter there have always been there. Markets, vans, fleeting conversations with people: sounds that many find a nuisance but for others mean joy, relaxation and a sense of everyday life. 
Guatemala City is such a noisy place, and untangling that noise means knowing how to live within it, move through it, decipher it and find refuge there.

_ The most important memory I brought back to Berlin is the sound of my hometown. Moments alone or with friends, of wild fun or introspection, finding oneself in such a chaotic and increasingly suffocating urban environment and salvaging memories and recollections: these are just a few fragments of the soundscapes I managed to compile. Guatemala City is the belly button of the Americas; it is my home; there is no other place that sounds quite like it.”


baladí - ciudad ombligo

balam ajpu - iq: viento

alex hentze - el viento lo sabe

∆GU∆TECK∆ - S_u_FF____ER 

marimba contemporánea - resonar de dos mundos

el mundo como flor y como invento - 75 otros nombres

bvdub x east of oceans - we stood in fields of light

koyak - infinitos espejos

introAcido x diana morales - el reproche de la falda a la noche 

mabe fratti - pasaste por mi para ir al campo

radio zumbido - dj salvación

Ɥɔǝʇɐɔnʎ - k̸͍̟͕͌̀͆ 

200m - 50% off the online learning platform where kids 
can build their own world 

asimov - coordenada

koyak - ladrillos color piel

mabe fratti x jonas arena - rompiendo piel

the san lucas band - la chirimía
